the eu's high representative Joseph Bell
is condemning the killing of
Palestinians in Gaza on Saturday it
happened during Israel's military
operation to free four hostages held
captive by Hamas the Israeli Army
released footage that it says shows
25-year-old NOA aramani entering a
helicopter during the rescue operation
she and three other men were all
kidnapped at the NOA Music Festival
during the terror attacks on October 7th
last year which triggered Israel's
latest war on
Hamas says at least 210 Palestinians
were killed in the area where the rescue
operation took place and calls it a
massacre Israel claims the number of
Civilian casualties is much lower and
says it's focused on the Israelis who
freed her first moments of Freedom after
more than 8 months in
captivity Noah aramani reunited with her
family at an Israeli Hospital
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu was
also there to welcome her
home footage of Hamas abducting Noah and
her boyfriend in the October 7 Terror
attacks was among the first to
emerge three men were also freed in the
operation almog mu
Jan Andre
coslov and schoi
ziv it's Israel's biggest rescue
operation of the war so far Netanyahu
vowed to bring the remaining hostages
home we're committed to getting the
release of all the
hostages and we expect Hamas to release
them all but if they don't we'll do
whatever it takes to get them all back
home Israel released this footage which
it says shows three hostages being
freed the news to spark celebrations
outside the
hospital and was announced to beachgoers
in Tel
Aviv but in Gaza people are mourning the
Dead the Hamas government media office
says Israeli air strikes in central Gaza
killed more than 200 people hundreds
more are injured in the same area where
the hostages were
rescued hospitals are over overwhelmed a
resident describes what she saw at the
newsat refugee
camp people were standing on the road
thinking they're safe suddenly a jet
struck them now they're dead children
were on that street they had nothing to
do with this they were
innocent the Israeli occupation Army
committed a horrific massacre in newat
Camp the occupation directly targeted
civilians in nerat Market which was busy
with venders customers and
refugees Israel says it was targeting
militant infrastructure the Palestinian
Authority is calling for an emergency
meeting of the UN Security
Council and as news off the rescue
operation spread thousands of Israelis
were out again on the streets of Tel
Aviv on Saturday demanding the
government strike a deal to bring all
the remaining hostages Home Police used
water cannon to disperse the crowds
families of hostages joined the weekly
rally it's believed 120 people are still
being held by Hamas the protesters also
want early elections and the removal of
prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu for more I'm now joined by
Myra sonshine she's a senior analyst on
Israel Palestine at the international
crisis group an NGO focused on conflict
resolution welcome to DW again uh Maria
I wanted to get your reaction to the
repeated mentions of Massacre we've had
in this uh in what we have shown so far
and also the fact that there are
protests in Israel do you think
Netanyahu will be criticized for a move
that's widely being seen as a win for
him I don't think Israelis are going to
criticize the operation to free the four
hostages uh I think Israelis are not
focused as they have not been focused
throughout this war on the Palestinian
casualties but I obviously think that
it's important to understand that many
many Palestinians were killed and
injured in this operation we don't know
exactly how many we don't know how many
Israel considers to be militants of
those I I don't think It ultimately
matters at this point the amount of
Palestinians that have been killed
throughout this 8-month war is far far
far too high and the people who are
living there in suffering is also needs
to stop I do think that Israeli uh uh
still after this rescue operation many
of them understand that this is not how
hostages are going to be freed and this
is not the way that it that it should go
that there has to be a hostage deal and
so uh I'm I'm happy to see at least that
Israelis largely this morning still
believe that hostage deal is the best
way and a ceas fire and a stop to the
war at this point is the best way to get
hostages free so that's definitely a
clear indication of the domestic
reaction but when you look at the
international reaction and I Circle back
to what uh uh Joseph Burell said do you
think pressure on Netanyahu on that
front will
continue I think International pressure
will continue and should continue on
Netanyahu um but uh this in some ways
gives Netanyahu a Lifeline um it you
know Gans the war cabinet minister who
is his political rival was supposed to
leave the government today he was
supposed to give a statement last night
he has postpone that uh I have a feeling
that he's not going to leave the
government anytime soon uh that wouldn't
necessarily uh destabilize the
government but it would definitely give
momentum um to some kind of change uh in
the domestic political scene uh but but
you know again it's very good news that
four people have been freed But
ultimately it doesn't change the dynamic
it doesn't change the fact that the war
has to come to an end a ceasefire has to
come not just for the people of Gaza but
also for because of what's happening on
the on the Northern Israeli border with
Lebanon because of what's happening in
the West Bank I mean it's just uh you
know just catastrophic everywhere and it
needs to stop and speaking of that
ceasefire and the demands for a hostage
deal how do you think this opport ation
impacts those ceasefire
negotiations I think that's a really
good question that nobody has a clear
answer to I think Hamas obviously will
understand from this that it needs to
guard the hostages even better that it
might feel um you know legitimacy to
call an end to the hostage uh
negotiations the ceasefire negotiations
however you know the again the interest
kind of remain the same if Hamas is
interested in a in a ceasefire I think
it will push as much as possible to
appear to be going ahead with it but it
has remained consistent that it needs to
stop the war Biden has put all the cards
on the table the International Community
are all pushing Qatar is trying to
pressure Hamas uh Netanyahu was under
under extreme pressure so so That
Remains the Same um the question is if
you know if if people will continue to
keep up the pressure specifically on
Netanyahu um to to kind of basically say
that the war has to stop which is
something that he has refused to do
because of his own uh political surv
rival and interests um so it has yet to
be seen if this rescue operation will
change that much but I do think that it
gives Israelis a false hope that somehow
you know this isn't this doesn't need to
stop immediately we can keep trying to
get people out but then in the absence
of such a hostage deil and of a
ceasefire essentially do you expect more
military operations like this in the
future I'm sure that is really special
uh units will continue to um collect a
military intelligence and try their best
to get people out I'm sure that's always
the case uh but the bigger picture here
is that Israel has not achieved its uh
War goals its strategic um uh
aspirations towards defeating Hamas
towards getting all the hostages back
it's you know and more and more military
operations are not going to necessarily
do that instead they're going to create
more uh suffering and probably create
even more generations of uh you know TR
trauma on both sides sides so uh a
continued War continued military
operations are ultimately not going to
serve the interests of either side M of
Sunshine from the international crisis
group thank you so much for your
analysis thanks a
lot DW Middle East analyst Shani ranus
joins me in the studio for more shanii
we saw those protest pictures while
Netanyahu has seen this operation as a
win there's still criticism where does
he stand well that's a good question we
will have to see I mean the support for
the hostages I mean if there's anything
that this operation yesterday have
taught us about the Israelis that the
the whole nation was in tears and of Joy
so there's no doubt that the hostages as
a cause is very prominent Israeli
discourse and we've seen that yesterday
also in the protest there's been more
and more people coming to the streets
knowing that the extraordinar of this
operation is exactly what it is it just
shows on the need for a different
solution because it's not feasible for
Israel to be releasing in such
operations all 120 that are still kept
in Gaza and they're very much afraid
many of those families were confessing
is so they're afraid for the for the
safety of the well-beings knowing that
Hamas must have changed operations as
you know reaching conclusions following
Israel's uh raid yesterday on nerat so
that cause is still very much out there
and it puts nanyo in a very precarious
position because his base on the right
sees this uh military operation as a
proof that only more military pressure
will help Israel but the more and more
voices within Israeli consensus among
the you know the public the white public
are not there and this divide is where
Netanyahu is now needing to decide
whether he chooses the political narrow
uh aspirations of his himself and his
narrow right-wing base or is he going
for a different move that might mean
risking his political future and
speaking of the impact of such a
military operation we heard it being
called Massacre by Joseph Bell and by
several other people as well uh why was
this operation so deadly well we need to
keep in mind uh narat is a as a refugee
camp is a very densely populated area it
was already before October 7th
definitely after the war has started and
people had to flee from all parts of
Gaza into that camp it's also considered
to be a stronghold of Hamas they have
lots of forces that a lot of militants
and and the Israeli Army has not really
systematically uh operated in that part
until just the last two weeks now we
know that was also part of preparing for
this operation and the problem was the
military forces had managed to sneak
into the houses where the hostages were
kept but on the way out they were
already discovered and they had to find
their Escape Routes and that included a
lot of heavy uh fire exchange with local
militants of Hamas and uh needing is
Israeli forces to have back up from the
air and let's keep in mind first and
foremost the fact that Israel has chose
to make this operation give it a go
despite the fact it took place in broad
daylight on a Saturday next to a very
crowded uh Marketplace that means that
Israel must have known this could happen
nonetheless they still went along with
it they want to send a clear message
here first internally to the Israeli
population saying we will do whatever it
takes and we will put you know nothing
will stop us and they also wanted to
send a message to Hamas and the
Palestinians because Israelis feel that
you know they think um Hamas think that
they have become weak that the Israeli
military is not really creative enough
not daring enough not really bringing
any results and they wanted to tell
Hamas we got you you know we we still
have our Edge we have intelligence we
have the ability um and that was a clear
message that they sent unfortunately on
the backs of so many miserable
Palestinians who were you know found
themselves in the most terrible
conditions just um you know losing their
lives in such such a tragedy uh was
unfolding yeah but speaking of the clear
message there's one to the Israelis
there's one to Hamas but it also seems
to be one to the International Community
that's pressuring Israel to back off
from such aggressive actions we saw the
consequences the death stole that you
were just talking about we also know
Anthony Lincoln is heading there to talk
about the ceasefire deal how does this
impact that that's the key question how
has uh yesterday's events in nerat how
will they affect the deal the hostage
deal which also is not just about the
hostages it's about a ceasefire it's
about normalizing relations with Saudi
Arabia bringing new you know moderate
forces Arab Force into the into the
region a new defense pack for the region
with the Americans of course still on
the table and lincol is very much
determined to bring it he will come to
Israel it will be his eighth visit for
the last8 months so pretty much every
month he's there he will go to Israel to
Egypt and katar of course the the
mediators that have a very vital role in
this whole operation and the Jordan um
there will be an a humanitarian Aid uh
conference that he will be participating
and we see that also it's it's an
important part of the American agenda to
maintain the flow of Aid into Gaza the
peer the American that was built not far
from narat actually uh was relaunched
yesterday and it also was a a source for
Rumors in the social media maybe the
Americans have helped the Israelis
because of The Coincidence of the uh two
things you know colliding the operation
and the reopening of that peer the
Americans reject any suggestion that
they have helped Israel in the operation
yesterday right DW Shan ranas thank you
so much for unpacking that for us you're
welcome